there's something beneath my feet that
if you didn't know I reckon you'd be
pretty hard pressed to guess what now
I'll give you clue it's a kind of animal
but it's not a mole or a rat or anything
like that it is in fact a bird David
Steele is a warden here on the far
nylund's he's hoping to reveal to me
who's responsible for engineering this
subterranean world yes I've got one here
here we go this should be quite
interesting fun here sir the world
puffins spend most of their lives at sea
but when they return to land they become
borrowers you can see how puffins dig
that the halls of actually got big claws
Ivan if you can see them on the end of
the fear really sharp claws extremely
sharp claws and will actually just dig
their bows with those claws and the bill
so that's that's it they dig so
fanatically for one fluffy reason
now is there a puffle in in well do you
know well if they're hoping so let's
start it's gonna put him down and just
keep him to one side and is he quite
happy that he is I'm gonna pass you if I
can get the chick out I'm gonna push the
chick to you my first puff fling so this
this will be the first time this puffin
has seen the outside world so I'm just
gonna put it in your hand there you go
that's it oh look hi hi there kisi come
and say meet your adoring public very
good look at that bad
he's a puff fling he'll spend about 40
days down this dark damn pool and then
under the cover of darkness without
parents consent is gonna walk to the sea
and you'll spend the next three years on
the sea before eventually returning to
breed as a breed an adult and life for
them can be 3035 years
now listen to you I'm going to put you
back with your mum in your burrow
underground that's right I just yeah
puffins lay only one egg a year so every
puff fling is precious that's why they
dig their burrows up to 2 meters long to
keep their young safe from voracious
predators such as the great school with
80,000 puffins here this is a city of
seabirds all tucked safely beneath the
ground on these islands these cute
little birds have constructed an
astonishing complex a staggering 80
kilometers of tunnels and burrows
essentially this is the most excavated
piece of real estate anywhere in the UK